docs/prerequisites.rst, before:

.. _prerequisites:

#############
Prerequisites
#############

One for installing ChipWhisperer do not require prior installation of
the following prerequisites (:ref:`install-virtual-machine`). However,
if you want more control over where, and how you install the prerequisites,
the prerequisite installation process for your operating system is detailed below.

 * :ref:`GNU/Linux <prerequisites-linux>`
 * :ref:`Windows <prerequisites-windows>`
 * :ref:`Mac <prerequisites-mac>`

.. _prerequisites-linux:

*********
GNU/Linux
*********

There is only manual install available on GNU/Linux.

Python
======

On Linux installing Python and the the associated package is straightforward.
Typically, you can install them from the package manager (ie. apt-get,
yum, ...).

On Ubuntu or similar:

.. code:: bash

    sudo apt install python3 python3-pip


Compilers
=========

The AVR Toolchain can be installed using:

.. code:: bash

    sudo apt install avr-libc gcc-avr

The Arm Toolchain can be installed using:

.. code:: bash

    sudo apt install gcc-arm-none-eabi

.. note::

    Some versions of Ubuntu (Ubuntu Bionic Beaver and likely before) provide
    a GNU Arm toolchain that links to incorrect files during the build process.
    To install a working version of the toolchain.

    .. code:: bash

        wget https://mirrors.kernel.org/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/newlib/libnewlib-dev_3.0.0.20180802-2_all.deb
        wget https://mirrors.kernel.org/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/newlib/libnewlib-arm-none-eabi_3.0.0.20180802-2_all.deb
        sudo dpkg -i libnewlib-arm-none-eabi_3.0.0.20180802-2_all.deb libnewlib-dev_3.0.0.20180802-2_all.deb


Hardware Drivers
================

The driver for Linux is built in; however, you need to allow your user account to access the peripheral. To do so, you'll have to make a file called /etc/udev/rules.d/99-newae.rules . The contents of this file should be:

.. code::

    # CW-Lite
    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="2b3e", ATTRS{idProduct}=="ace2", MODE="0664", GROUP="plugdev"

    # CW-1200
    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="2b3e", ATTRS{idProduct}=="ace3", MODE="0664", GROUP="plugdev"

    # CW-Nano
    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="2b3e", ATTRS{idProduct}=="ace0", MODE="0664", GROUP="plugdev"

    # CW-305 (Artix Target)
    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="2b3e", ATTRS{idProduct}=="c305", MODE="0664", GROUP="plugdev"

    # CW-CR2
    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="04b4", ATTRS{idProduct}=="8613", MODE="0664", GROUP="plugdev"
    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="221a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0100", MODE="0664", GROUP="plugdev"

Then add your username to the plugdev group:

.. code:: bash

    sudo usermod -a -G plugdev YOUR-USERNAME

And reset the udev system:

.. code:: bash

    sudo udevadm control --reload-rules

Finally log out & in again for the group change to take effect.

You can always find the latest version of this file on
`Github <https://github.com/newaetech/chipwhisperer/blob/master/hardware/99-newae.rules>`_.

ChipWhisperer
=============

You are now ready to move on to :ref:`install-repo`.


.. _prerequisites-windows:

**************
Windows Manual
**************

Python
======

For any of the other installation methods, you'll need to have Python
3 installed on your computer. If you already a recent version of
Python installed (3.5.x+), you can skip this step. Note that Python
2.x will **not** work with this codebase. There's also a bit of setup
that's needed to get other tools and prepare other drivers.

The recommend method of installing Python is to use a distribution
called `WinPython`_. This setup avoids installing Python globally, and
includes most of the software you will need. In addition it makes it
possible to install 32-bit and 64-bit Python on the same system with
minimal problems. This can be very useful as the 64-bit version is
handy for doing analysis on large data sets.

To install WinPython 3.7.x, Download a release in the 3.7.x branch
from the WinPython site. ChipWhisperer works with both 32-bit and
64-bit versions of Python.

Choose a reasonable location to install this to - note the default is
simply in the download directory. Instead it's recommended to find a
directory such as */WinPython32bit-3.7.1.0*, or into your local
directory such as *c:/Users/yourname/WinPython32bit-3.7.1.0*.

Go to your installation directory for WinPython, and run the shortcut
called *WinPython Command Prompt.exe*. This will give you a command
prompt which is setup to run Python along with associated scripts.

Optional: You can add the python.exe you just installed to your PATH.
To do so navigate to your installation folder, and run the *WinPython
Control Panel.exe* program. Then select **Advanced** -> **Register**
distribution. If you do not do this, you will have to run all commands
in this document via the *WinPython Command Prompt.exe*. If you plan
on running both 32-bit and 64-bit Python, you should not register
them. Instead explicitly call the correct Python by always running the
*WinPython Command Prompt.exe*, and then calling specific scripts or
notebooks.

.. _WinPython: http://winpython.sourceforge.net/


Installing Hardware Drivers
===========================

Details of driver installation are on specific pages for supported
hardware (such as cwcapturerev2 and naecw1173_cwlite). Drivers are
available from ChipWhisperer `releases`_ section.

.. _releases: https://github.com/newaetech/chipwhisperer/releases


Compilers
=========

It assumed any time the :code:`make` command is run, that the
appropriate compiler is on the path, whether that is the `ARM toolchain`_ or the
`AVR-GCC standalone`_.

.. _ARM toolchain: https://developer.arm.com/open-source/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads
.. _AVR-GCC standalone: https://www.microchip.com/mymicrochip/filehandler.aspx?ddocname=en607654


ChipWhisperer
=============

Remember that any time you install packages for python during the installation,
use the *WinPython Command Prompt.exe*.You are ready to move on to
:ref:`install-repo`.


.. _prerequisites-mac:

********
Mac OS X
********

The Mac OS X instructions are similar to the :ref:`GNU/Linux <prerequisites-linux>`
once you have **brew** installed.

Brew
====

Open your bash terminal and paste this into the prompt:

.. code:: bash

    /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"

This snippet is taken directly from `brew's website`_. The script will guide
you through the installation.

.. _brew's website: https://brew.sh/

Packages
========

**libusb** is required by the **chipwhisperer** software to communicate with
the board. You can install it using **brew**:

.. code:: bash

    brew install libusb


Python
======

You will require a python version >= to 3.5. You can get the binary from the
`Python Software Foundation's website`_. Choose one of the stable versions that
has an installer for your machine. You can also run this command in your terminal:

.. code:: bash

    brew install python3

You will have to check the version this downloads. It is best to have python 3.7.x


.. code:: bash

    python --version

If this installs a version lower than 3.5, just download and manually install the
Python interpreter from the `Python Software Foundation's website`_. If you
download and install the python interpreter manually from the website it should
be available on the bash terminal after installation as:

.. code:: bash

    python3.7

or the equivalent for your version.

Compilers
=========

The compilers are also available on Mac OSx. The ARM compiler can be found
on the `ARM website`_. If needed, the AVR compiler can be installed as well
using:

.. code:: bash

    brew tap osx-cross/avr
    brew install avr-gcc

This brew install does not work for some older versions of Mac OS X. You will
have to find a different way to install the compilers.

ChipWhisperer
=============

You are now ready for :ref:`installing <install-repo>` ChipWhisperer.

.. _Python Software Foundation's website: https://www.python.org/downloads/mac-osx/
.. _ARM website: https://developer.arm.com/tools-and-software/open-source-software/developer-tools/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads

Commit message:

Update prerequisites.rst to include libusb-dev for linux

docs/prerequisites.rst, after:

.. _prerequisites:

#############
Prerequisites
#############

One for installing ChipWhisperer do not require prior installation of
the following prerequisites (:ref:`install-virtual-machine`). However,
if you want more control over where, and how you install the prerequisites,
the prerequisite installation process for your operating system is detailed below.

 * :ref:`GNU/Linux <prerequisites-linux>`
 * :ref:`Windows <prerequisites-windows>`
 * :ref:`Mac <prerequisites-mac>`

.. _prerequisites-linux:

*********
GNU/Linux
*********

There is only manual install available on GNU/Linux.

Python
======

On Linux installing Python and the the associated package is straightforward.
Typically, you can install them from the package manager (ie. apt-get,
yum, ...).

On Ubuntu or similar:

.. code:: bash

    sudo apt install python3 python3-pip


Packages
========

There are some packages required for **chipwhisperer** and its dependencies such
as **pyusb** to work. Install using::

.. code:: bash

    sudo apt install libusb-dev make


Compilers
=========

The AVR Toolchain can be installed using:

.. code:: bash

    sudo apt install avr-libc gcc-avr

The Arm Toolchain can be installed using:

.. code:: bash

    sudo apt install gcc-arm-none-eabi

.. note::

    Some versions of Ubuntu (Ubuntu Bionic Beaver and likely before) provide
    a GNU Arm toolchain that links to incorrect files during the build process.
    To install a working version of the toolchain.

    .. code:: bash

        wget https://mirrors.kernel.org/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/newlib/libnewlib-dev_3.0.0.20180802-2_all.deb
        wget https://mirrors.kernel.org/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/newlib/libnewlib-arm-none-eabi_3.0.0.20180802-2_all.deb
        sudo dpkg -i libnewlib-arm-none-eabi_3.0.0.20180802-2_all.deb libnewlib-dev_3.0.0.20180802-2_all.deb


Hardware Drivers
================

The driver for Linux is built in; however, you need to allow your user account to access the peripheral. To do so, you'll have to make a file called /etc/udev/rules.d/99-newae.rules . The contents of this file should be:

.. code::

    # CW-Lite
    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="2b3e", ATTRS{idProduct}=="ace2", MODE="0664", GROUP="plugdev"

    # CW-1200
    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="2b3e", ATTRS{idProduct}=="ace3", MODE="0664", GROUP="plugdev"

    # CW-Nano
    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="2b3e", ATTRS{idProduct}=="ace0", MODE="0664", GROUP="plugdev"

    # CW-305 (Artix Target)
    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="2b3e", ATTRS{idProduct}=="c305", MODE="0664", GROUP="plugdev"

    # CW-CR2
    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="04b4", ATTRS{idProduct}=="8613", MODE="0664", GROUP="plugdev"
    SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTRS{idVendor}=="221a", ATTRS{idProduct}=="0100", MODE="0664", GROUP="plugdev"

Then add your username to the plugdev group:

.. code:: bash

    sudo usermod -a -G plugdev YOUR-USERNAME

And reset the udev system:

.. code:: bash

    sudo udevadm control --reload-rules

Finally log out & in again for the group change to take effect.

You can always find the latest version of this file on
`Github <https://github.com/newaetech/chipwhisperer/blob/master/hardware/99-newae.rules>`_.

ChipWhisperer
=============

You are now ready to move on to :ref:`install-repo`.


.. _prerequisites-windows:

**************
Windows Manual
**************

Python
======

For any of the other installation methods, you'll need to have Python
3 installed on your computer. If you already a recent version of
Python installed (3.5.x+), you can skip this step. Note that Python
2.x will **not** work with this codebase. There's also a bit of setup
that's needed to get other tools and prepare other drivers.

The recommend method of installing Python is to use a distribution
called `WinPython`_. This setup avoids installing Python globally, and
includes most of the software you will need. In addition it makes it
possible to install 32-bit and 64-bit Python on the same system with
minimal problems. This can be very useful as the 64-bit version is
handy for doing analysis on large data sets.

To install WinPython 3.7.x, Download a release in the 3.7.x branch
from the WinPython site. ChipWhisperer works with both 32-bit and
64-bit versions of Python.

Choose a reasonable location to install this to - note the default is
simply in the download directory. Instead it's recommended to find a
directory such as */WinPython32bit-3.7.1.0*, or into your local
directory such as *c:/Users/yourname/WinPython32bit-3.7.1.0*.

Go to your installation directory for WinPython, and run the shortcut
called *WinPython Command Prompt.exe*. This will give you a command
prompt which is setup to run Python along with associated scripts.

Optional: You can add the python.exe you just installed to your PATH.
To do so navigate to your installation folder, and run the *WinPython
Control Panel.exe* program. Then select **Advanced** -> **Register**
distribution. If you do not do this, you will have to run all commands
in this document via the *WinPython Command Prompt.exe*. If you plan
on running both 32-bit and 64-bit Python, you should not register
them. Instead explicitly call the correct Python by always running the
*WinPython Command Prompt.exe*, and then calling specific scripts or
notebooks.

.. _WinPython: http://winpython.sourceforge.net/


Installing Hardware Drivers
===========================

Details of driver installation are on specific pages for supported
hardware (such as cwcapturerev2 and naecw1173_cwlite). Drivers are
available from ChipWhisperer `releases`_ section.

.. _releases: https://github.com/newaetech/chipwhisperer/releases


Compilers
=========

It assumed any time the :code:`make` command is run, that the
appropriate compiler is on the path, whether that is the `ARM toolchain`_ or the
`AVR-GCC standalone`_.

.. _ARM toolchain: https://developer.arm.com/open-source/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads
.. _AVR-GCC standalone: https://www.microchip.com/mymicrochip/filehandler.aspx?ddocname=en607654


ChipWhisperer
=============

Remember that any time you install packages for python during the installation,
use the *WinPython Command Prompt.exe*.You are ready to move on to
:ref:`install-repo`.


.. _prerequisites-mac:

********
Mac OS X
********

The Mac OS X instructions are similar to the :ref:`GNU/Linux <prerequisites-linux>`
once you have **brew** installed.

Brew
====

Open your bash terminal and paste this into the prompt:

.. code:: bash

    /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"

This snippet is taken directly from `brew's website`_. The script will guide
you through the installation.

.. _brew's website: https://brew.sh/

Packages
========

**libusb** is required by the **chipwhisperer** software to communicate with
the board. You can install it using **brew**:

.. code:: bash

    brew install libusb


Python
======

You will require a python version >= to 3.5. You can get the binary from the
`Python Software Foundation's website`_. Choose one of the stable versions that
has an installer for your machine. You can also run this command in your terminal:

.. code:: bash

    brew install python3

You will have to check the version this downloads. It is best to have python 3.7.x


.. code:: bash

    python --version

If this installs a version lower than 3.5, just download and manually install the
Python interpreter from the `Python Software Foundation's website`_. If you
download and install the python interpreter manually from the website it should
be available on the bash terminal after installation as:

.. code:: bash

    python3.7

or the equivalent for your version.

Compilers
=========

The compilers are also available on Mac OSx. The ARM compiler can be found
on the `ARM website`_. If needed, the AVR compiler can be installed as well
using:

.. code:: bash

    brew tap osx-cross/avr
    brew install avr-gcc

This brew install does not work for some older versions of Mac OS X. You will
have to find a different way to install the compilers.

ChipWhisperer
=============

You are now ready for :ref:`installing <install-repo>` ChipWhisperer.

.. _Python Software Foundation's website: https://www.python.org/downloads/mac-osx/
.. _ARM website: https://developer.arm.com/tools-and-software/open-source-software/developer-tools/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads
