docs/windows-install.rst, before:

.. _install-windows-exe:

####################
Windows Installation
####################

*************************
Windows Bundled Installer
*************************

.. note:: Beginning with ChipWhisperer 5.5, the Windows installer includes
          everything you need to run ChipWhisperer!

.. warning:: Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) seems to interfere with
            :code:`%%bash` blocks. If you get an error about not being
            able to find make, or something about needing to install 
            a Linux distribution, try disabling WSL or 
            changing :code:`%%bash` to :code:`%%sh`.

.. warning:: It is recommended that you enable long paths on Windows
            to prevent any files from not being copied during installation.
            Follow https://www.microfocus.com/documentation/filr/filr-4/filr-desktop/t47bx2ogpfz7.html,
            then reboot to enable long paths

If you want to run a native Windows installation of ChipWhisperer, your best 
bet is to run the Windows installer, which takes care of getting the 
prerequisites for you. The steps for using the installer are as follows:

 * Navigate to the ChipWhisperer release page on Github: `releases`_

 .. image:: _images/win-installer-1.png

 * Find the latest ChipWhisperer Windows install executable (currently 
   :code:`Chipwhisperer.v5.6.1.exe`)
 
 * Run the executable and choose the path you want to install ChipWhisperer at. 
   You must have read/write permissions for the location you install to, so 
   avoid installing in a location like :code:`C:\Program Files` or the like. The 
   default install location (the user's home directory) will work for most users.

 * Choose whether or not you want to create a desktop shortcut for running 
   ChipWhisperer and whether or not you want to install make and compilers (we recommend that you
   do).

   .. image:: _images/win-installer-2.png

 * Wait for the installation to finish. Note that a second window will open before the install finishes to
   complete additional steps.

   .. image:: _images/win-installer-3.png

If you're on firmware x.23 or newer, you're all set! Drivers will be automatically installed when you plug your ChipWhisperer in.
Otherwise, see :ref:`windows-drivers`.

=====================
Running ChipWhisperer
=====================

Once you've completed the above, you should have a fully functioning, self-contained installation
with everything you need. Since everything is self-contained, or at least as so far is possible on Windows,
you will only have access to ChipWhisperer, the compilers, git bash, when you run our provided applications.

The easiest way to launch ChipWhisperer and get started with the tutorials is by running the ChipWhisperer
application, available via the Start Menu, the folder where you installed ChipWhisperer, or, if you selected
this, via a desktop shortcut. After running, you should see a terminal pop up, followed by a new window open 
in your browser:

.. image:: _images/Jupyter\ ChipWhisperer.png

Once you see this open, we recommend clicking on :code:`jupyter`, then running through :code:`0 - Introduction to Jupyter Notebooks.ipynb`
to verify that everything installed correctly. If you run into any issues, please ask on our `forums`_ for help.

This install bundles Git Bash, which we use to ensure :code:`%%bash` blocks in Jupyter function correctly. If you want
to run this Git Bash with access to ChipWhisperer, the compilers, etc. you can run the ChipWhisperer Bash application,
available from the same spots as the normal ChipWhisperer installation.

.. _releases: https://github.com/newaetech/chipwhisperer/releases

.. _forums: https://forum.newae.com/

.. _manual-windows-install:

**********************
Windows Manual Install
**********************

If you run into issues with the bundled installer, or prefer to grab everything yourself, you can also install ChipWhisperer
manually on Windows. Before grabbing ChipWhisperer itself, you'll need to grab some prerequisites:

========
Git Bash
========

To start off, you'll want to grab `git-bash`_, which we'll use as our general purpose terminal. You can use all default options
during the installation, except for :code:`Enable experimental support for pseudo consoles`, which we recommend enabling,
as it allows the Python interpreter to function correctly on the command line.

======
Python
======

We recommend grabbing Python via `WinPython`_. Any Python version above or equal to 3.7 should work here; however, we've only
verified installation on Python 3.7, 3.8, and 3.9. The default installation instructions will suffice here. Once
WinPython is installed, you'll need to add it to your system path. Don't add it to your user path, as
Git Bash won't be able to pick it up from there.

==================
Compilers and Make
==================

We recommend that you grab both `avr-gcc`_ and `arm-none-eabi-gcc`_. Once you've got them installed
add the :code:`bin\\` folders from both to your system path.

===================================
Verifying Prerequisite Installation
===================================

Once you've got all the prerequisites installed open Git Bash and run the following to verify
that everything is installed properly and on your system Path:

.. code:: bash

    python -c "import sys; print(sys.executable)" # verify Python installation
    make --version # verify Make from avrgcc
    avr-gcc --version # verify avrgcc
    arm-none-eabi-gcc --version # verify arm-none-eabi-gcc

========================
Installing ChipWhisperer
========================

With all the prerequisites installed and verified, you're ready to install ChipWhisperer
proper.

You can clone and install ChipWhisperer by running the following commands in Git Bash:

.. code:: bash

    cd ~/
    git clone https://github.com/newaetech/chipwhisperer
    cd chipwhisperer
    git submodule update --init jupyter
    python setup.py develop
    python -m pip install -r jupyter/requirements.txt

If everything there completes successfully, then congratulations, you've successfully installed ChipWhisperer!
All that's left is to launch Jupyter and run the verification notebooks. Run the following in Git Bash:

.. code:: bash

    cd ~/chipwhisperer
    python -m jupyter notebook

After running, you should see a terminal pop up, followed by a new window open 
in your browser:

.. image:: _images/Jupyter\ ChipWhisperer.png

Once you see this open, we recommend clicking on :code:`jupyter`, then running through :code:`0 - Introduction to Jupyter Notebooks.ipynb`
to verify that everything installed correctly. If you run into any issues, please ask on our `forums`_ for help.


.. _arm-none-eabi-gcc: https://developer.arm.com/open-source/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads
.. _avr-gcc: https://blog.zakkemble.net/avr-gcc-builds/
.. _git-bash: https://git-scm.com/downloads
.. _WinPython: https://winpython.github.io/

Commit message:

New doc pages - move api parts into their own files
mend

docs/windows-install.rst, after:

.. _install-windows-exe:

####################
Windows Installation
####################

*************************
Windows Bundled Installer
*************************

.. warning:: Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) seems to interfere with
            :code:`%%bash` blocks. If you get an error about not being
            able to find make, or something about needing to install 
            a Linux distribution, try disabling WSL or 
            changing :code:`%%bash` to :code:`%%sh`.

.. warning:: It is recommended that you enable long paths on Windows
            to prevent any files from not being copied during installation.
            Follow https://www.microfocus.com/documentation/filr/filr-4/filr-desktop/t47bx2ogpfz7.html,
            then reboot to enable long paths

If you want to run a native Windows installation of ChipWhisperer, your best 
bet is to run the Windows installer, which takes care of getting the 
prerequisites for you. The steps for using the installer are as follows:

 * Navigate to the `ChipWhisperer release page <https://github.com/newaetech/chipwhisperer/releases>`_ on Github.

 .. image:: _images/win-installer-1.png
    :width: 800

 * Find the latest ChipWhisperer Windows install executable (currently 
   :code:`Chipwhisperer.v5.6.1.exe`)
 
 * Run the executable and choose the path you want to install ChipWhisperer at. 
   You must have read/write permissions for the location you install to, so 
   avoid installing in a location like :code:`C:\Program Files` or the like. The 
   default install location (the user's home directory) will work for most users.

 * Choose whether or not you want to create a desktop shortcut for running 
   ChipWhisperer and whether or not you want to install make and compilers (we recommend that you
   do).

   .. image:: _images/win-installer-2.png
    :width: 600

 * Wait for the installation to finish. Note that a second window will open before the install finishes to
   complete additional steps.

   .. image:: _images/win-installer-3.png
    :width: 800

On ChipWhisperers with updated firmware, drivers will be automatically installed. If you run
into issues when trying to connect, you may want to read our :ref:`page on drivers <windows-drivers>`.

=====================
Running ChipWhisperer
=====================

Once you've completed the above, you should have a fully functioning, self-contained installation
with everything you need. Since everything is self-contained, or at least as so far is possible on Windows,
you will only have access to ChipWhisperer, the compilers, git bash, when you run our provided applications.

The easiest way to launch ChipWhisperer and get started with the tutorials is by running the ChipWhisperer
application, available via the Start Menu, the folder where you installed ChipWhisperer, or, if you selected
this, via a desktop shortcut. After running, you should see a terminal pop up, followed by a new window open 
in your browser:

.. image:: _images/Jupyter\ ChipWhisperer.png

Once you see this open, we recommend clicking on :code:`jupyter`, then running through :code:`0 - Introduction to Jupyter Notebooks.ipynb`
to verify that everything installed correctly. If you run into any issues, please ask on our `forums`_ for help.

This install bundles Git Bash, which we use to ensure :code:`%%bash` blocks in Jupyter function correctly. If you want
to run this Git Bash with access to ChipWhisperer, the compilers, etc. you can run the ChipWhisperer Bash application,
available from the same spots as the normal ChipWhisperer installation.

.. _releases: https://github.com/newaetech/chipwhisperer/releases

.. _forums: https://forum.newae.com/

.. _manual-windows-install:

**********************
Windows Manual Install
**********************

If you run into issues with the bundled installer, or prefer to grab everything yourself, you can also install ChipWhisperer
manually on Windows. Before grabbing ChipWhisperer itself, you'll need to grab some prerequisites:

========
Git Bash
========

To start off, you'll want to grab `git-bash`_, which we'll use as our general purpose terminal. You can use all default options
during the installation, except for :code:`Enable experimental support for pseudo consoles`, which we recommend enabling,
as it allows the Python interpreter to function correctly on the command line.

======
Python
======

We recommend grabbing Python via `WinPython`_. Any Python version above or equal to 3.7 should work here; however, we've only
verified installation on Python 3.7, 3.8, and 3.9. The default installation instructions will suffice here. Once
WinPython is installed, you'll need to add it to your system path. Don't add it to your user path, as
Git Bash won't be able to pick it up from there.

==================
Compilers and Make
==================

We recommend that you grab both `avr-gcc`_ and `arm-none-eabi-gcc`_. Once you've got them installed
add the :code:`bin\ ` folders from both to your system path.

===================================
Verifying Prerequisite Installation
===================================

Once you've got all the prerequisites installed open Git Bash and run the following to verify
that everything is installed properly and on your system Path:

.. code:: bash

    python -c "import sys; print(sys.executable)" # verify Python installation
    make --version # verify Make from avrgcc
    avr-gcc --version # verify avrgcc
    arm-none-eabi-gcc --version # verify arm-none-eabi-gcc

========================
Installing ChipWhisperer
========================

With all the prerequisites installed and verified, you're ready to install ChipWhisperer
proper.

You can clone and install ChipWhisperer by running the following commands in Git Bash:

.. code:: bash

    cd ~/
    git clone https://github.com/newaetech/chipwhisperer
    cd chipwhisperer
    git submodule update --init jupyter
    python setup.py develop
    python -m pip install -r jupyter/requirements.txt

If everything there completes successfully, then congratulations, you've successfully installed ChipWhisperer!
All that's left is to launch Jupyter and run the verification notebooks. Run the following in Git Bash:

.. code:: bash

    cd ~/chipwhisperer
    python -m jupyter notebook

After running, you should see a terminal pop up, followed by a new window open 
in your browser:

.. image:: _images/Jupyter\ ChipWhisperer.png

Once you see this open, we recommend clicking on :code:`jupyter`, then running through :code:`0 - Introduction to Jupyter Notebooks.ipynb`
to verify that everything installed correctly. If you run into any issues, please ask on our `forums`_ for help.


.. _arm-none-eabi-gcc: https://developer.arm.com/open-source/gnu-toolchain/gnu-rm/downloads
.. _avr-gcc: https://blog.zakkemble.net/avr-gcc-builds/
.. _git-bash: https://git-scm.com/downloads
.. _WinPython: https://winpython.github.io/
